Analysis and Insights on Ad Bids Between 22 nd July and 21 st August 2019

A total of 201,858 Ad bids were conducted between the 22 nd of July and 21 st of
August 2019 (a period of one month) from different locations and through a plethora
of sites and apps on which the Ads were deployed. Ads bids improve after the first
week of deployment as consumers should be given time to become aware of
adverts (opportunities presented). Such is the case with this sets of ads as they
performed below expectations between 22 nd July – 1 st August 2019 and began
improving gradually on the 2 nd of August 2019.

Generally, Ad bids are higher on weekdays than weekends. This is so on the 19 th
(Monday), 20 th (Tuesday) and 21 st (Wednesday) of August 2019 where Ad bids
totalled at 28,353; 60,468 and 42,581 respectively. This is due to a number of
reasons. Firstly, people being at work means they have Wi-Fi and internet access.
Secondly, colleagues interact with each other concerning Ads sighted. On an
average, ads perform well during the hours of 9:00am and 17:00pm. Within this
interval, the numbers peak at 12 noon as this is break time.

Four types of devices were used in bidding for ads. Phones and Tablets perform
better than personal computers and Connected TVs. People are at work and on
the go. Hence, they will view ads more comfortably on Phones than other devices.
More interestingly, Android phones and Tablets tend to feature more than
Apple phones in ad Bids. Most people use Android because it is cheaper as
compared to Apple devices.

Phones, personal computers, tablets tend to bid more on sites than apps. This
is most likely because of the distractions ads cause when they appear
spontaneously on apps.

Bids through sites are higher through the ADX exchange than Opera. On the
other hand, bids through Apps are higher on the Opera exchange than ADX.
Furthermore, Bids with phones are higher on sites with phones are higher on
the ADX exchange than Opera. This is the same with Connected TVs, Personal
Computers and Tablets.

Additionally, it is noticed that news sites such as newsnow, dailymail,
dailypost record more ad bids especially through the ADX exchange but not
through the Opera exchange. Conversely, Apps such as MINI Final, News Final
record more ad bids than others especially through the Opera exchange.
As regards location, Bids from Lagos and Abuja are higher than other states
within Nigeria. This is due to the make-up of these states. They are commercial
zones, literacy and internet friendliness are generally high and these areas are
densely populated. Geopolitically, the South West records higher bids followed
by the North Central, reinforcing Lagos and Abuja as crucial areas.

https://public.tableau.com/profile/seyi.ogunnowo#!/vizhome/POC_15905798555120/
Dashboard1?publish=yes
The link above leads to the dashboard on the salient points discussed above.
